For my final project I'm taking another look at lead poisonings in Baltimore city. In my first project I created a series of maps that showed lead poisoning data by census tracts
based on racial breakdown. So this time I am going to look at and map some other geographic data that could potentially have input into the lead poisoning issue. The first
phenomenon I wanted to depict is, like I showed in my first project, racial breakdown of those at risk of lead contamination. So for my first map I created a very basic map 
showing the distribution of lead poisoning risk overlaid with an interpretation of the famous “white L” and “black butterfly”. As there are no universally agreed upon borders 
for these two geographic anomalies I looked at many depictions and tried to create an average. This along with the second map I created which again depicts lead poisoning risk
against racial breakdown, this time as a bivariate map, more efficiently shows the issue of racial inequality in Baltimore city then in my first project. 

Now that I have laid out the basic issue I wanted to look into some periphery issues that could potentially be related to the risk of lead poisoning in Baltimore city. 
The first thing I was curious about is how this compares housing prices. So in my third map I display housing price as well as race. What we see in this map is 
unsurprising, homes in white neighborhoods are at large of greater value than those in black neighborhoods. Which makes sense along with lead contamination as well, 
more effort and resources would be put into removing lead from homes that are worth more, to further increase their value, nothing surprising here. What was suprinmg 
was what I found with my next map. I wanted to take a look at Brownfield sites in Baltimore, while brownfield sites don't always necessarily have to do with lead 
poisoning, it is still a good indicator of general geographic health. And in mapping it against the racial breakdown I could see no clear correlation between race and 
presence of brownfield sites, asn they were exactly divided 49/50 between white and black tracts.

For my fifth map I wanted to look into something that is frequently discussed in regards to lead poisonings in Baltimore, the Wheelabrator Incinerator. The Wheelabrator 
incinerator is a garbage incineration plant in south west of Baltimore City, and is often criticized for polluting the city's air supply with lead, among other pollutants.
So i overalied a five and ten mile radius circle over a map of lead poisoning risk of the area surrounding the incinerator. And while its difficult to draw any definitive 
conclusions from this map there are some areas where the risk does appear to drop off once it leaves the radius of the incinerator. However it is hard to filter out 
confirmation bias and we can't know now if these changes are as a result of another factor. 

Finally I wanted to see how the ever changing population of Baltimore would be affected by lead contamination, so I created a map displaying the change in Baltimore's 
population from 2000 to 2019 and created a bivariate map comparing it to lead contamination risk. And we can see that in areas where lead is more prominent the population 
is generally declining, and vice versa. This effect is most likely largely due to gentrification causing population growth of the inner harbour and surrounding tracts and
decline in tracts outside that region. 
